My first observation comes from the end of the data table.  Both our most profitable and our most popular items are on the more expensive end of what we sell.  It appears our products range roughly from $1 - $5, and price seems to have very little to do with how many of an item get sold.  When you also consider that our biggest spenders in the player base average over $3 per purchase, you begin to question how much value there is in the time and money we spend developing the cheaper items when the players aren’t buying them anyway.  I would argue the “coolness” or usefulness is what determines whether players buy an item or not and the price is “somewhat” irrelevant (to a degree that we haven’t tested the bounds of yet).  My vote goes towards focusing our development time on the more expensive / higher quality items, or at the least bump up the price of the cheapest ones since price seems to have little to do with what gets purchased the most.

My second observation is that purchasing is consistent across the genders.  Women make up 14% of the spending player base and 15% of the revenue.  Players whose gender we don’t know make up 1% of the spending base and 2% of the revenue.  These groups spend a little more than the men do (by about $0.50 per spending player) but are so much smaller in overall number that I don’t think it makes sense to cater to them at the expense of male players.  I’d say what we’re doing now is fine, but there could be some value to be gained by finding a way to entice the male demographic to buy more items.  If you manage to nail it there’s a lot to gain and not “too much” to lose from the 15% female / unknown player base you’re ignoring with that design.

My third observation is that purchasing is consistent for most of the age brackets with a few outliers.  Our very youngest and the age 35-39 group spend the most, and everyone else is within $0.11 (per purchase) of each other.  Those groups also lead purchase amount per person, but amongst the rest the 20-24 age group (our largest by far) separate themselves from the remaining groups to be a clear third biggest spender.  I would take that as good news to continue what we’re doing since our biggest age group is also one of our highest spending.

Overall, I think we should be pleased with the spending we get from our players.  Instead we should focus on our end to more aggressively figure out the optimal selling price seeing as we have a lot of cheap items that still aren’t getting bought.  And stop picking on the children please.
